# Text Mining Group Assignment:
### Sarah de Jong, Tom Klein Tijssink, Lukas Busch

## Abstract
For our project we want to investigate song lyrics.
We feel that song lyrics are a very interesting type of text as they contain a lot of abstraction and we are curious to find out how a song could be interpreted by a computer that (most likely) struggles with this abstraction, but also has no music to interpret a song.

We want to build a model that takes a number of words and gives words to follow these words and write a song this way.  We will start by building such a model for a specific genre. Then, we want to perform a sentiment analysis of the different songs and build different models for different genres and sentiments. Another addition could be to implement the model in a way such that the song rhymes.

## Research questions
As somewhat mentioned in the abstract we are thinking about the following research questions
  1) Can we create a song writing program that takes a number of words as well as a genre and sentiment to generate lyrics?

## Dataset
For this project we want to use the dataset 380000-lyrics-from-metrolyrics, because this dataset includes lyrics as well as genres. It was originally available on kaggle, but it currently is not anymore. We retrieved the data from a project from last year: https://github.com/ludovicaschaerf/TMCI_Project.
The dataset contains 380,000 different song lyrics that can be downloaded in .csv format.

## A tentative list of milestones for the project
For the next project update, we want to have done (/started) the sentiment analysis (Lukas), building the basic model (Tom), and found a way to test our model (Sarah). We are not sure yet how to test the performance of our model. We could for example give the first few words of a song and see if it generates the next word. However, this may not really be a good measure, because it can still be a proper song without the next word being the word from the original song. Therefore, Sarah will do some research this week on how we could test the performance.

After we have all worked on these 3 tasks, we are meeting on Friday to discuss our next steps.

## Documentation

### Evaluation of the songs
We would like to generate a "good" song, with which we mean that it "makes sense". The best possible result would be that humans are not able to distinguish between the songs generated by our model and songs written by humans. We thought of the following ways to evaluate the songs:
1. Give the first sentence of a real song and see how similar the lyrics our model outputs is to the original song.
2. Check the morphological correctness of the generated lyrics. We can for example check this by taking a premade dictionary and checking if the words in our generated lyrics are in this dictionary, in order to make sure that our model is not producing gibberish.
3. Check the syntactic correctness of the generated lyrics, for example by using a parser.
4. Check by humans. We can look at the text ourselves and judge whether we think the song "makes sense". We could even set out a survey with lyrics generated by our model and lyrics written by humans and ask the people answering the survey to judge which is which.

We will not use the first method, since the fact that the generated lyrics is not similar to the original song, does not necessarily mean it is a bad song. We are planning on using a combination of the last three methods. We want to first check the morphological correctness and check that the words are not gibberish. Then, we want to check the syntactic correctness. However, it is important to note that a song is unfortunately not always syntactically correct, because there are for example sentences such as "yeah yeah yeah". In general, however, songs often are syntactically correct, so we still think this method is useful for us. Finally, we will do a human check. We will check ourselves how good we think the lyrics is, and potentially also set out a survey.

We have also looked at how other people that generated lyrics evaluated their lyrics. Generally, they seemed to not really evaluate their result or just use the last approach, by judging themselves if it looks good (see links below). However, we think judging the morphological and syntactic correctness could help us with this evaluation.

Sources:
- https://towardsdatascience.com/generating-eminem-lyrics-using-neural-networks-96e7f9c45e8a
- https://gsurma.medium.com/text-predictor-generating-rap-lyrics-with-recurrent-neural-networks-lstms-c3a1acbbda79
- http://warmspringwinds.github.io/pytorch/rnns/2018/01/27/learning-to-generate-lyrics-and-music-with-recurrent-neural-networks/
- https://towardsdatascience.com/ai-generates-taylor-swifts-song-lyrics-6fd92a03ef7e
